What is OOP?
What is Inheritance?
What is Polymorphism?
What is Abstraction?
What is Encapsulation?
What is a class?
What is an object?
What is casting? What is the difference between up vs downcasting?
What is Encapsulation? Explain the concept with a realistic example!
What is Polymorphism? Explain the concept with a realistic example!
What is Inheritance? Explain the concept with a realistic example!
Define a constructor?
What is method overloading?
What are different types of arguments? (context: pass by value / pass by reference)
What is method overriding?
What is an interface?
What is exception handling?
Difference between overloading and overriding?
What is an abstraction?
What are access modifiers?
What is early and late binding?
Do we require parameter for constructors?
What is a copy constructor?
Whether static method can use non static members?
What are base class, subclass and superclass?
What is static and dynamic binding?
Which OOP concept is used as reuse mechanism?
Which OOP concept exposes only necessary information to the calling functions?
What is data hiding?
What is variable shadowing?
What is the difference between hiding a static method and overriding an instance method?
Define the following terms: Instantiation, Attribute, Method
Explain how object oriented languages implement abstract data types.
Explain how object oriented languages attempt to simplify memory management for Programmers.
Explain the “Single Responsibility” principle!
What is an object oriented program? Explain, show.
Draw an object oriented family (as entities, with relations) on the whiteboard.
What does it mean that an object is Immutable?
How do you make a class immutable? What do you need to watch out for?
How do you prevent developers from subclassing a class?
How do you prevent developers from overriding a method in a subclass?
How do you prevent developers from changing the value of a variable?
What is the programming technique, concept that you can use to create an implementation of an interface during runtime?
What are the possible of uses of reflection?
